# Faculty Scholarly Work Database: A Tool for Equitable Professional Advancement

## Introduction
The aim of this project is to provide the Michigan Medicine Department of Family Medicine with two major deliverables:
- a comprehensive dataset of faculty publications sourced from the Elements, Altmetric, and other online databases
- a Tableau dashboard designed to provide the department with actionable insights for identifying promotion opportunities and fostering collaborative initiatives among physicians and clinicians for future projects.   

This project was originally completed by Sydney Lauer, Aren Shah, Ariane Stenstedt, and Jing He, for the University of Michigan’s School of Information’s Information Analysis capstone: SI 485 Information Analysis Capstone II, their files are included in `UMSI Files/`.

This fork provides several scripts to automatically create the merged dataset, including MeSH keywords for each article generated by GPT 4.1-nano, which can be used as a data source for the Tableau dashboard.

## Manual Cleaning Steps
Before running the scripts, check that the exported data is mostly well-formed. To create the initial dataset, the only manual steps I took were: 
- delete dates before ~1950 because they're likely incorrect
- hide any unwanted publications by setting *HIDE_ROW* to 1 (for outliers such as serialized columns with large numbers of issues).

## Usage
First, get access to an API key for UM GPT Toolkit and update `.env` with the API key and shortcode for billing.

To install the scripts, make sure you have Python 3 installed and run `install.bat` to set up the virtual enviroment. Add CSV files for the Elements, Altmetric and scraped datasets to the same directory, and ensure the filenames match those in `run_pipeline.bat`. Each script can be run individually, or you can use `run_pipeline.bat` to run all.

An "original" dataset must be included, this can either be empty or contain a previous version of the merged dataset; either way it will be updated with any new publications.